An unauthorized transaction is a transaction that was not performed by you and did not allow anyone else to make. Fraudulent transactions could be made by any stranger or someone you do not know, or someone who steals your card or account information for personal benefits. A fraudulent transaction is one unauthorized by the credit card holder. Such transactions are categorized as lost, stolen, not received, issued on a fraudulent application, counterfeit, fraudulent processing of transactions, account takeover or other fraudulent conditions as defined by the card company or the member company.

In this project, machine learning concepts are used to detect fraudulent transactions Using a dataset of of nearly 28,500 credit card transactions and multiple unsupervised anomaly detection algorithms, we are going to identify transactions with a high probability of being credit card fraud. In this project, we will build and deploy the following two machine learning algorithms:

    1. Local Outlier Factor (LOF)
    2. Isolation Forest Algorithm

LOCAl OUTLIER FACTOR:
IN this the anomaly score of each sample is called Local Outlier Factor. It measures the local deviation of density of a given sample with respect to its neighbors. It is local in that the anomaly score depends on how isolated the object is with respect to the surrounding neighborhood.

ISOLATION FOREST ALGORITHM :
The IsolationForest ‘isolates’ observations by randomly selecting a feature and then randomly selecting a split value between the maximum and minimum values of the selected feature.Since recursive partitioning can be represented by a tree structure, the number of splittings required to isolate a sample is equivalent to the path length from the root node to the terminating node.This path length, averaged over a forest of such random trees, is a measure of normality and our decision function.
Random partitioning produces noticeably shorter paths for anomalies. Hence, when a forest of random trees collectively produce shorter path lengths for particular samples, they are highly likely to be anomalies.
